All right, good morning, everyone.
My name is Doug Davidson,
and I'm here to talk to
you about analyzing text.
Now, every app has to deal with
text in one form or another,
and there are other sessions at
the conference about inputting
text and displaying text.
But here what we're going to talk
about is what to do if you want to
understand something about what is
in a piece of text that you have.
And we built a powerful and flexible
toolkit for that into our frameworks,
primarily at the foundation level.
So all of the APIs I'm going to discuss
today are available on both OS X and iOS.
And we've made it really
easy for you to use.
I'm going to tell you about that today.
I should say that
proper handling of text,
especially international text,
is something that's
very important to Apple.
It's part of what allows us to
help people all around the world.
And it should be important to you, too,
to get the same kind of global reach.
So we're going to start with
some very basic things and
then move quickly to the next.
So the most very basic
is the class NSString.
Now, we all use NSStrings all the time.
It's worth remembering
what an NSString is.
Conceptually,
it is a sequence of UTF-16 units,
which the API refers to as characters.
But when you're analyzing strings,
Generally speaking,
we don't want you to be dealing
with individual characters.
I'll explain a little more
about that in a minute.
What you should be referring
to as the pieces of analysis
are ranges within a string.
And all the APIs deal
with text in that way.
In addition to NSString,
the companion class
is NSAttributedString.
And there's a whole session this
afternoon on attributed strings
and another one tomorrow morning,
especially for iOS developers.
So I'm not going to say a great
deal about attributed strings,
but remember that an NSAttributedString
has an underlying NSString that
you can get at readily and
cheaply with the string method.
And in addition,
it has certain attributes
that decorate it,
things like fonts, colors, underlines,
etc., that again apply to ranges
of characters within the string.
So anything you can do
analyzing an NSString,
you can also do to an attributed
string by getting its output.
So you can get the output
of this underlying string.
And then you can do various things to it,
including manipulating the
attributes on these ranges.
So we'll use that in
some of the examples.
So why don't you want to deal
with individual characters mostly?
Because even the smallest
user visible unit,
the thing that appears
as a character to a user,
may in some cases be more than
one character in the string.
For example,
many accented characters can be or
must be represented as a base letter
followed by a combining accent character.
And in some scripts,
like Korean especially,
there are even more complex combinations
where multiple characters go up to
make one user visible character,
which we refer to as a composed
character sequence or sometimes
just a character cluster.
In addition,
for any characters in Unicode
beyond the basic multilingual plane,
they will be represented in UTF-16 terms,
that is in NSString, as a surrogate pair,
two UTF-16 units.
I should say that the characters that
are beyond the basic multilingual
plane are not just obscure things
like hieroglyphics and cuneiform.
This includes a lot of
characters in Chinese.
We all want to handle Chinese well.
It includes most of the
new emoji in Unicode.
We certainly want to be
able to handle emoji well.
So what do you need to do?
Well, first of all,
just be sure you don't split
the parts of a character cluster
when you're analyzing a string.
If you use the APIs we're discussing,
they'll all take care of that for
you with the ranges they give you.
If you're in doubt,
you can call range of composed
character sequence at index or range
of composed character sequences
for ranges to get a good range that
doesn't split character clusters.
If you do split them,
you might end up with odd things.
Odd things like accents being divorced
from their base characters or half
of a surrogate pair showing up.
And if you don't
specifically test for it,
you might not know it until you
get a bad review mentioning it.
But I want to describe, first of all,
an API that we have for going
through a string and looking at it,
character cluster by character cluster.
And I want to use this to
illustrate a pattern that
we'll see again and again here,
and that is analyzing text using
APIs that are block iterators.
Now, block is a string that's
not a string block.
And blocks are pretty much perfectly
designed for analyzing text,
because what do they do?
They apply some chunk of code to,
in this case, one piece of text,
one range of characters in a string,
then another, then another, and so on.
So for this API,
enumerate substrings in range,
if we pass it the option enumeration
by composed character sequences,
then it will call your block
over and over again with each
of the characters in the string,
and it will pass you here the substring
range will be the range of the
characters in that character cluster.
And then you can do with
those whatever you want.
So, for example, here,
if you have a corresponding
attributed string,
you can just add an attribute like a
color to that range if you needed to.
So let me show you how that works.
Here, if we call that on this string,
our block will be called repeatedly with
the ranges of each character cluster.
And here, these are just single character
characters clusters so far.
They'll be ranges of length one until
we get to a character that happens to
be a character cluster that happens
to be two underlying characters.
Here an E with an accent character.
And then here an emoji character
that's a surrogate pair.
And in these cases,
you would pass in the range of length two
corresponding to this character cluster.
Another unit of processing
that's especially important for
linguistic-related tasks is the word.
And we should remember that in
English we're used to thinking
of words as being delimited
by white space or punctuation,
but that's not the
case in every language.
In languages like Chinese, Japanese,
and Thai, words may not be delimited by
punctuation or white space,
and you need -- some analysis
has to be done to determine
where the word boundaries are.
So we have an API for going
through strings by words.
In fact, it's just the same API that
I mentioned for character clusters
but with a different constant.
Use enumeration by words,
and instead your block will
be called with the ranges of
the words in a piece of text.
In this case,
let me pay a little closer attention
to the arguments of the block.
So the first one is substring,
that is the actual word as a string.
Next is the range of it in the string.
So the first one is substring,
that is the actual word as a string.
Next is substring,
And the enclosing range also includes,
if there is any, other stuff around the
word up to the next word,
like punctuation or white space,
if it happens to be there.
and there's also in most of
these block enumerators an
out point or Boolean argument,
stop,
which you can set to yes to break out of
the iteration prematurely if you need to.
Another unit of processing
is the paragraph,
that is, text that's delimited by
some kind of paragraph break,
carriage return, line feed, or both,
or Unicode paragraph break character.
This is the largest unit you
have to consider at once for
Unicode-related processing.
And again, we have the same API for
enumerating through a string
by paragraph by paragraph if
you pass it the right constant,
enumeration by paragraphs.
One common pattern is to nest these.
You can go through a
string first by paragraphs,
then, say, by words,
then maybe by character
clusters if you need to.
There's also a nice convenience API if
you're doing the Unity sort of thing of
going through something line by line,
then we have an API enumerate lines
using block that will take a string
and pass you each line at a time
for you to do something with it.
Suppose what you want to do is
to find the first occurrence of a
particular substring within a string.
Well, we have the range of string
class of APIs for that.
And they take a number of options.
In this case I've chosen
the case insensitive option,
which means I'll find it
in upper or lower case.
For this word it could be resume
or resume with some accents.
I'll find either one.
And width insensitive,
which will find either a single or
double width versions of characters
that may occur in some Japanese text.
If I don't want to find the
next occurrence of a substring,
if I just want to check and see
if a substring is present at
a given place in the string,
I can add the anchored search
option to the same API.
And this means it will find a
match only if the string we're
looking for occurs starting at the
start of the range that we pass in.
And this is useful in many
cases and much cheaper,
of course,
than looking through the entire string.
We also have search and
replace APIs based on these.
One version that applies to immutable
strings and returns a modified copy.
And another version that acts on mutable
strings and mutates them in place.
Sometimes the thing you're looking
for is not a specific substring,
but maybe characters from certain certain
class like punctuation or white space or
digits or letters or uppercase letters.
For that we have NSCharacterSet.
Conceptually an NSCharacterSet is
just a bitmap over all of Unicode.
It can be any subset
of Unicode characters.
We have a bunch of predefined
examples in the API,
white space, punctuation,
etc., that I mentioned.
But you can create it with any
set of characters that you choose.
You can pick a list.
There's even a mutable variant of
NSCharacterSet so you can perform any
sorts of set operations on it you like to
get the precise character set you want.
And then there's a very similar API,
range of characters from set,
that finds the next occurrence of
characters from this set in your string.
and there is also a matching version
with an anchored search option
that checks to see is there a
character from this set at the start
of this range that I'm looking at.
So let's see how some
of this works in code.
And so I have a very simple sample
project that has some text and a
number of methods for going through
it using various of these APIs.
So here we're going to
go through it by words.
Enumerate substrings in range by words.
Now, the string here is the
underlying string of the text,
which is a myattributed string.
So I'm just going to add a color to
each word in my text just to show
you that the examples on the slides
are really taken from running code.
So let's see how that works.
So I'll color all the words in the text
red and leave the nonword text uncolored.
Maybe it's easier to see if we do
it in slow motion that shows how
the enumeration actually works.
Okay.
Next.
If I want to find a particular substring,
again, my resume or resume,
one common pattern,
this range of string API just
returns the first match,
so if I want to find them all,
I can go through it in a while loop,
start and I look in a range that
goes from the end of my previous
match to the end of the string and
continue until I no longer find
any or reach the end of the string.
When it doesn't find something,
it will return and it's not found,
zero is the range and
I'll break out of my loop.
So I'll try this.
And okay,
I'll find all occurrences of that string.
You notice that this substring
search is not a by word search.
So it finds both resume and
resume as part of resumes.
If I wanted to do it by word,
I can write this a little differently.
And I could just use my
enumerate substrings in range,
enumeration by words,
and go through word by word.
And then I can use the range of
string API with the anchored search
option to see if that range that
I found as a word actually matches
the thing that I'm looking for.
[Transcript missing]
I just find the cases
that match a whole word.
Now you'll notice that a number
of things in this text are in
quotes of one form or another.
There are a lot of characters
that are used as quote
characters in various languages.
So I want to find all the
quotes that occur in this text.
So I have a method here that
creates a character set,
and it creates a character set with
certain characters that I've listed
by putting them in a string here.
And it shows just all the characters
that I know that are used as
quotes in various languages.
And so I'm going to use that and
use the range of character from
set API in the same way that
I use the range of string API.
I'm going to go through in a
while loop until I no longer
find characters from that set.
And what does that look like?
It colors all of the characters
that are used as quotes here,
as red.
Suppose I want to find the words
that are surrounded by quotes.
Well,
I wrote a little helper method here to
determine whether a particular range
of the text is surrounded by quotes.
So I use that same quote character set,
and I look and see,
using the anchored search option
to range of character from set,
to ask,
is the previous character a quote,
and is the following character a quote?
So to look at the previous character,
I use backwards search,
which is the option that starts
from the end of the range
rather than the beginning,
and anchored search to check for a match
right at the boundary of the range.
And then to look at the
following character,
I pass the anchored search option,
and I pass appropriate ranges.
So in this case,
one that starts at the end of
the range I'm looking at and
goes to the end of the string.
And that tells me whether
a range is in quotes.
So then I go through enumerate
substrings in range by words to
go through word by word and ask,
is that word in quotes?
If yes, color it.
How does that work?
Let's color all the words in quotes.
So here are all the words
that are in quotes colored.
Okay, let me go back to the slides.
Let's move along to something
a little more powerful.
Regular expressions.
So probably you're familiar
with regular expressions.
If not,
let me just say that regular expressions
are patterns that include things
like literal strings or sets of
characters or combinations of these
or repetitions of them or alternatives
or more sophisticated things.
The term regular expression by now
is a bit of a misnomer because modern
regular expression APIs include
things that aren't formally regular
like look ahead and look behind
and back references and so forth.
But the term has stuck.
So we have -- here's a very
simple example of a regular
expression I'll use to demonstrate.
It starts off with a word boundary,
finds a word break.
continues by this first
parenthesized sub-expression
matches either an I or an O.
The second one matches
either an F or an N.
Now these parenthesized sub-expressions
are sometimes referred to as
capture groups for reasons
that will become clear later.
And ends with another word boundary.
So what this expression matches is
whole words that have two letters,
the first of which is either I or O,
the second is either F or N.
Very simple.
This is how the regular expression looks.
If we are putting it in
a literal string in code,
we have to remember that the backslash
character needs to be escaped.
So it would look like this
with the backslashes doubled.
Just a little caution.
And we have a powerful regular expression
facility in Foundation that is based
on the ICU regular expression library.
ICU is the standard library for
dealing with Unicode algorithms,
so it's fully Unicode-compliant,
and has many different options.
The things that are usual,
like case insensitivity, dot matches all,
the so-called multi-line mode,
options for including comments
in regular expressions,
and so on and so forth.
You can read the header
for descriptions of these.
The simplest API for finding
regular expressions is just the
same API that we used before,
the range of string API.
If we add the regular
expression search option to it,
it means that the thing we're looking for
is now treated like a regular expression
pattern instead of a literal string,
and we'll find a match.
One interesting twist is that,
remember I said all these APIs return
a range and it's not found zero
if they don't find a match.
And for the previous APIs,
they'll always return a non-zero
length range if they find something.
There are certain regular expressions,
if you use look ahead or look behind,
you can create one that will match
correctly with a zero length match.
So I've chosen to determine whether
there's a match by comparing the location
with "and it's not found" instead.
For a little more flexibility,
we have a class, NSRegularExpression.
With this you can control when the
NSRegularExpression object is created.
Now when that happens,
the pattern gets compiled
into an interval form,
so this is useful for
performance reasons.
And the class is fully thread-safe,
so you can just create one,
keep it around as long as you need it,
and use it from all the threads you need.
You create it by passing in
a pattern and some options.
So here I've chosen the
case insensitive option.
So this will match either
upper or lower case.
And then the basic API on this regular
expression is just a block enumeration.
Enumerate matches in string with options
and there are various options here.
Again you can look in
the header for these,
things like transparent
bounds or anchoring bounds.
There's an option to regularly report
progress if it takes a long time.
There's an option to tell you when
it's about to finish and so on.
And then your block will be
called for each match of the
regular expression in the string.
So it would be called once for
each of these two-letter words that
match my regular expression pattern.
And what will it be called with?
Here it's not just a
range that we passed in.
We pass in an object representing the
match of class NSTextCheckingResult
that has a number of properties.
One property is a result type.
That will be important later.
The main property is the range property,
which is the overall range of the match.
But with regular expressions you
also get to find the ranges of
the individual capture groups,
that is these parenthesized
sub-expressions,
which can be very useful in many cases.
So range at index,
range at index 0 is the
overall match range,
range at index 1 the range
of the first capture group,
range at index 2 the range
of the second capture group,
and so on and so forth.
And so then you can go through
and in your block you can get
the overall range of the match,
you can get the range of
the first capture group.
For this particular regular
expression it's the first
letter of the two-letter word.
You can get the range of
the second capture group.
Again, for this one it's the second
letter of our two-letter word.
And with those ranges you can
then do whatever you need to the
match of your regular expression.
The basic API is a block enumerator,
but there are plenty of other
APIs if you don't need that.
You can get all the matches of
the regular expression as an
array if that's what you want,
or just count them,
or just get the first one,
or maybe just the range of the
first one if that's all you need.
It's cheaper to do that
than to get them all.
So you can just ask for the
range of the first match,
and that will tell you
is there a match at all.
Remember I mentioned the
convenience API to go through
a piece of text line by line.
If you were trying to do something
grep-like using NS regular expression,
you could use that,
go through a string line by line.
For each line, ask,
"Is there a match of my regular
expression in the line?" And then if so,
do something like print it out.
Very simple.
There's also a search and replace
API on NSRegularExpression.
Again, one method that takes an immutable
string and returns a modified copy.
And another method that operates on a
mutable string and mutates it in place.
But for these methods,
the thing that you're replacing
with is not just a literal string.
It's a template.
This should be familiar for
users of regular expressions.
Where $0 represents the
whole thing that was matched.
$1 is the first capture group.
$2 the second and so on and so forth.
So here I picked $2, $1.
That is,
contents of the second capture group,
contents of the first capture
group will replace the match.
So it should probably be
obvious what that's going to
do to these two-letter words.
It's just going to reverse them.
There is also for convenience
a search and replace by regular
expression API just on NSString.
And it's the same API we saw
before on NSString but with the
NSRegularExpressionSearch option
added which makes it treated
as a regular expression search.
So regular expressions are great
for things that are simple patterns.
But for more complicated things
like URLs or email addresses,
phone numbers, dates and times,
even street addresses,
people sometimes try to find
these using regular expressions,
but it's very difficult and
the regular expression is not
likely to match the complexity,
especially of the wide range
of international formats you'll
find for things like dates
and times and phone numbers.
So fortunately we have something
that's better for these applications.
Faster, more powerful,
handles all sorts of
international formats.
And it's called Data Detectors.
You're probably familiar with it
from seeing it find things like
dates and times and addresses
in your mail at the UI level.
It's also available as an API,
NSDataDetector.
And NSDataDetector is just a
subclass of NSRegularExpression.
You create an NSData detector.
You don't pass it in a pattern.
Instead,
you just pass it in a set of types
of the sorts of things that you
want to find from the list of things
that data detectors can find.
And there are a bunch of these.
So it can find dates and
times with a type date.
It can find street addresses
with a type address.
URLs and email addresses
with a type link.
Phone numbers with a type phone number.
Because this is just a subclass
of NIS regular expression,
it has the same API.
The block enumerator gets called for each
match of the sort of thing that your data
detector is looking for in your string.
And again,
it gets called with an object of
class and its text checking result.
Now here's where the result type
property of that class comes into
play because it tells you what the
sort of thing is that was found.
Is it a date or an address
or a phone number or URL,
etc.? And there are some
additional properties that
are specific to certain types.
So if it's a date,
there's an NSDate property.
If it's a street address,
there's the components dictionary
which gives you the street and
city and state and so forth.
If it's a URL or email address,
there's an NSURL property URL.
If it's a phone number,
there's a phone number property.
So you can go through and
for each match that you find,
check the result type and see what
sort of thing it is you found.
Is it a link?
Okay, get the URL.
We can do something with that.
Is it a phone number?
Okay, get the phone number.
We can do something with that.
And again,
because this is just a subclass
of NS regular expression,
it has all the same additional methods
to get all the matches in an array or
just count them or find the first one
or just the range of the first one.
As you can see,
if there is a match at all or not.
Let's see how that works in code.
Okay, so next I'm going to use the
regular expression that I showed.
I create an NSRegularExpression with it,
make it case insensitive,
and then just call
enumerateMatches in string.
And for each match,
I'm going to color the
range of the match.
Very simple.
Let's try it out.
and you see that all of the two
letter words that match are colored.
Very simple.
You can use it for any
regular expression you like.
Suppose I want to use data detectors.
All right.
I create a data detector with a type.
In this case I'm just choosing
the type link that will find URLs.
I use the same -- this is the same code.
Enumerate matches in string.
If I have a match, I color it.
and it finds the URLs in this
piece of text and colors them.
I should say this example here happens to
be an OS X application using NS TextView,
but you could do the same sorts of
things on iOS with an attributed
string and the underlying string.
All right,
so let's go back to the slides.
And let me move on to
the heavy artillery here,
which is something a little special.
We call it linguistic tagging.
And what linguistic tagging --
what this functionality does is it
takes a string and the first thing
it does is to analyze that string
to cut it up first into paragraphs
and the paragraphs into sentences,
and then the sentences into
what we refer to as tokens,
which are the words or the other things
that show up in text -- punctuation,
white space, et cetera.
So it divides up the text,
it tokenizes it,
and you can use it just for that
tokenization if what you need is word
or sentence or paragraph boundaries.
And then it attempts to determine
from the text what language a
particular piece of text is in.
So it's a language identification.
And it can give you -- it
uses the standard BCP 47
codes like EN for English,
FR for French, and so on and so forth.
And also it determines what script a
piece of text is in -- Latin script or
Cyrillic or Greek or Arabic or Chinese,
simplified Chinese or
traditional or Japanese.
And for those, it uses, again,
standard abbreviations
like LATN and CYRL.
So that's the basic analysis
that Linguistic Tagger
does on a piece of text.
And again,
many pieces of code use it just
for the language identification,
the script identification.
Then it can go on to do some
more sophisticated analysis.
It can take a look at that text and try
to determine what part of speech each
word in that text is being used as.
Is this a noun, a verb, adjective,
and so on and so forth?
It can take a look at word and text.
It can take a look at the
text and see what it is.
It can take a look at the text and say,
"All right, this is an inflected form,
maybe a plural.
What is the base form of
this word?" We use a little
technical terminology here.
We call this a lemma.
That's what would appear as the head
word in the dictionary for this word.
Maybe it's a verb form and you want
the infinitive form of the verb.
It can also attempt to determine
whether a piece of text looks
like it's part of a name or not.
Named entity recognition.
Whether it's a person name or
place name or organization name.
Now,
the basic analysis of tokenization and
language and script identification,
that we can do for
arbitrary pieces of text.
The more sophisticated linguistic
analyses are very language specific.
They require sophisticated natural
language models for each language.
So, these are provided only
for certain languages.
Currently, on OS X,
we do parts of speech and
base word identification,
lemmatization, for English, French,
German, and New and Mountain Lion,
Italian, and Spanish.
: We do named entity
recognition for English only.
On iOS, for reasons of space,
currently we provide all these
capabilities but only for English.
Now,
precisely which languages are supported
may change in the future if we add more,
so there is a method to
determine what capabilities are
supported for a given language,
available tag schemes for language.
The object that does the linguistic
tagging is NSLinguisticTagger.
To create one,
you create an NSLinguisticTagger
and you pass it in the tag schemes.
That is what we call the
list of the various kinds of
analysis that you want it to do.
There are constants for this.
Here I've chosen token type.
That's the basic tokenization.
Lexical class.
I say we use a little
technical terminology.
Lexical class is our term for
the parts of speech analysis.
Name type,
that's named entity recognition.
Name type or lexical
class combines those two.
It will give you whichever is most
salient for a given piece of text.
And lemma type,
that gives you the base form of a word.
Then you take your string
and you set it on the tagger.
The reason we do this is because a
tagger does some fairly sophisticated
analysis on a piece of text when it
needs to and then it holds on to it.
So subsequent requests for information
about that text are very fast.
And then the basic API on
NSLinguisticTagger,
again, guess what?
It's just a block enumerator.
Enumerate tags in range.
You pass it in a scheme, that is,
what kind of analysis do you want?
Do you want, in this case,
I've chosen lexical class,
I want to get parts of speech out.
There are some options.
You can choose to omit the white
space or punctuation or what have you.
And then your block will get passed
in the range of given tokens,
a word let us say, and the tag.
And for the lexical class scheme the tag
is just what part of speech is this word.
and I can take a look at that and say,
well, if it's a noun,
I want to do something with it.
Maybe I'm looking just for
nouns or adjectives or adverbs.
How does this work?
So if I were enumerating
through this particular string,
say I was doing it either by
lexical class or by lemma.
So for the first word,
lexical class would
say this is a pronoun.
Lemma would say the basic form
is "we." That's fairly simple.
For the next one,
lexical class would say this is a verb.
Basic form lemma would say this
is a form of the verb "say."
The "to" is a preposition.
"Him" is a pronoun.
Basic form is "he." It also
identifies punctuation.
In some cases it gives some
more specific identification.
For example,
it determines this is an open quote.
This is an interjection.
It determines which
punctuation is sentence ending.
And it determines that
this is a closed quote.
The basic API on Linguistic
Tagger is the block enumerator,
but there are additional ones.
You can get a specific
tag if you just want one.
Tag at index.
You can get a set of tags and arrange
as an array if you choose to do so.
So if I just wanted to look and say,
is the word here a noun,
I ask it tag at index with
a lexical class scheme,
and if the tag is noun,
then it thinks it's a noun.
Now, remember I said the linguistic
tagger tries to identify the language
of a piece of text from the text.
And in most cases that's accurate.
If there's only a few words,
a few words of text,
it may not be possible to
identify the language accurately.
It may not do it.
In some cases, if you know already the
language of a piece of text,
you can tell the tagger
and it will use that.
And you do so by creating
an NSOrthography object,
which is basically a list of the
languages that occur in a piece of text.
And you create it here.
I've said this text is
English in Latin script.
And I call setOrthography on
the tagger with that orthography
and it tells the tagger,
okay, treat this as English.
Even if you can't identify it,
treat it as English.
In addition to the
NSLinguisticTagger APIs,
there's a convenience API on NSString.
You can just take a string and say,
"All right, for this string,
go through it and enumerate
linguistic tags in a range and
pick your scheme." Lexical class,
let us say,
"Give me the parts of speech for the
words in this string." And you can
do all the same things that you can
do with LinguisticTagger with this,
but of course,
you don't have the control over the
lifetime of the tagger object and
the information that it holds onto,
but it's a convenience.
So let's take a look at
how this works in code.
Suppose I wanted to go through that
same text and color only the nouns.
Well,
it's not really any more complex than
any of the other things I've been doing.
I create an NSLinguisticTagger.
I give it some tag
schemes to start off with.
I say let's do basic tokenization,
parts of speech analysis,
and name recognition because
I may want those later on.
And I set my string on it.
Then I call it numerate tags in range.
Let's choose lexical class.
I want parts of speech out of this here.
And so it goes through token by token.
And if I find a noun, I'll color it.
Very simple.
See how it works.
All right.
Let's color all the nouns
in this piece of text.
Suppose I wanted to find just the nouns
that appear in quotes in this text.
I can take the same tagger,
call the same set string
and enumerate tags in range.
I could use my previous method that I had
to find out if a word was in quotes,
but I don't need to because,
as I mentioned,
the tagger keeps track of quotes.
So I can just ask the tagger.
Remember,
I say additional queries to the tagger
are cheap once it's done the analysis.
I just ask using tag at index,
and I'll look at the range
immediately before this word
and ask is that an open quote?
And I'll take a look at the word
at the tag at index for the index
immediately following my word and ask,
is that a close quote?
And if both of those are true,
then my word is in quotes.
So let's try that.
So let's find all the nouns that
are in quotes in this piece of text.
All right, nouns in quotes.
So you'll notice the
verb see is in quotes,
but it doesn't show up.
The adjective human is in quotes,
but it doesn't show up here.
I just get fox, dog, time, and events.
And finally, let's try name recognition,
which is, again, same API.
I create my linguistic tagger
and enumerate tags in range,
and I use the name type, and I ask,
is this one of our
types of names we know?
Person, place, or organization?
If so, I'll color it.
Let's try coloring all of the names
that appear in this piece of text.
And there they are.
So what sorts of things
do we use this for?
At Apple we use these APIs and
this technology to do things
like improving our text checking
and our auto correction.
We use it for things like
lookup where you tap on a word
and get information on it.
You look it up in a dictionary.
There are many other applications
for this potentially.
You can use this to
improve your indexing.
You can use it to identify names
if you want to find out who
is referred to in your text.
: What I want to do is to bring
up my colleague Jennifer Moore to
give a little bit more involved
example of the use of these APIs.
Hi, I'm Jennifer.
So one of the things that I love
about something like the iPad is
that it displays text so beautifully.
It makes it such a pleasure to read
my favorite books and magazines.
But in application there's so
many more things you can do with
text if you only knew something
about the content of that text.
So we've been working really hard
to provide these sophisticated tools
for analyzing text so that we can
leverage this content and add more
functionality to our own applications
and also make it really easy for
developers to do the same thing.
So one of the things that we would
like to be able to do is maybe to
be able to search through text.
So that's what we're going to do today.
So I have this application here.
I'm just going to show
you what it looks like.
So basically we have a collection
of articles about different topics.
And what we wanted to be able to do
is allow the user to type in a search
string and be able to get back a list of
all the articles that contain words from
that search string in the body of the
The easiest way to do this would
be to create a dictionary and index
all of our articles by all the words
in the text and keeping track of
all the articles that they occur in.
But of course if our application is
indexing something like Wikipedia,
the dictionary size might be huge in
size and probably not really feasible,
especially for something like the iPad.
If you think about it, what are the most
important pieces of text?
Those would be the nouns.
The nouns are the words that really
represent what an article is about.
We could probably go a long way towards
providing really useful search if we just
go and index all the nouns in our text.
With NSLinguisticTagger we can do that.
Today we're going to be looking
at content-based searching
using NSLinguisticTagger
and the linguistic APIs.
If we go and take a look at
how this might be implemented,
First of all,
we have our -- we'll just start with
a -- we have a class for managing
all the articles in our collection.
Basically,
there are two things we need to do.
We need to be able to index our
files and then we need to be
able to return a set of filtered
articles by the search string.
To start off,
we're just going to go and when
we allocate our articles manager,
we're going to go and index
all of our files all at once.
Since we're going to be processing
a lot of text all at once,
the most efficient way to do
this would be just to create
a linguistic tagger object.
We'll just do that to start.
We need to specify all the tag schemes
that we might be interested in looking at
because we don't want it to be doing any
processing that it doesn't need to do.
Since we're going to go and we
want all the nouns out of our text,
we're going to choose a tag
scheme for lexical class.
Later on, we might be also interested in
keeping track of the languages
that are being used in the text.
For that,
we'll want to keep track of the language
and also the script because we want
to be able to interface with the text.
We want to be able to interface
with NS orthography with the tagger.
Then we just initialize our
tagger with these tag schemes and
also our search index for later.
Then we go through and for
each article that we have,
we're going to go and index this article.
First thing we do is call set string on
our tagger with the text of the article.
Now, at this point,
if we knew the language of the text,
we could also call set
orthography on the tagger.
But since we're dealing with
a good amount of text here,
we can be pretty confident that it
will automatically guess the right
language and do the right thing.
So we can just go on to our block API.
We're going to call enumerate tags in
range with the range of the article.
with a tag scheme for lexical class.
We're not really interested
in white space or punctuation
so we could just emit those.
And in our block we're going
to get the tag back for the
current word in the token range.
So all we have to do is say, you know,
if the tag is a noun,
we're going to grab the substring
corresponding to that word,
lowercase it so that we
normalize it with our index,
and then we'll just add
it to our dictionary.
And that's all we have to do.
For later purposes, as I said,
we might want to keep track of
the language that's being used.
We don't really know if there's
mixed -- there could be mixed
languages in this document.
We're not sure.
So for each word we're just going to
keep track of the languages that we see.
So we could just call tag it index to get
the language out and also the script out.
And then we can use this to
create an NSOrthography object
and keep it around for later use.
More on that later.
That's all we have to
do to index our files.
Next thing we want to do is be able
to return a list of all the articles
that contain the search string.
Let me make this bigger.
As Doug mentioned before,
there are also convenience
methods on NSString.
I'm going to show you this here.
Our search string is pretty short.
Or probably pretty short.
We have our search string and here
we're going to call enumerate linguistic
tags in range directly on NSString.
Basically,
we're going to enumerate through
all the words in the search string.
There might be one or more terms.
We don't know.
For now, we're just going to use the
tax scheme for token type.
We're going to emit whitespace
and punctuation again.
We don't know the language
of what the user is typing,
so for now we'll leave that nil.
We grab the substring, lowercase it,
and then we just go check
is that word in our index.
If it is,
grab all the titles that it occurs
in and add it to our filtered set.
And that's all we have to do.
So now when we run this again,
now we have this list of articles
and I can type in something like
[Transcript missing]
Now, just to make sure that it's clear,
we're only indexing all the nouns
that are being used in our text.
I just want to show you,
I don't know if you can see this,
but there's a sentence here that says,
can't wait to share the latest news,
right?
And here,
the word share is being used as a verb,
right?
So we'd expect that if we typed in share,
you know, we wouldn't get this article,
but maybe we'd get an
article on market share or,
you know, stock shares,
like this nice Apple financial report,
right?
So, right.
Yes.
So let's go back to this example again.
So here, I typed in developers,
which is the plural form of developer.
But if I typed in just the singular form,
I don't get any results back,
because that word didn't
actually occur in my text.
And that's kind of a bummer,
because they mean the same thing.
And especially for languages like
Italian and Spanish or German,
there might be multiple forms
for the same kind of word.
So I don't have to index
all those inflicted terms,
or the user just has to know exactly
what word is being used in the text.
So this is where something like
lemmatization would really come in handy,
because instead of indexing
what I call the surface term,
surface form of a word,
we could just go and index all the
lemmas for each noun in our text.
So let's go see how we
would do that instead.
So we go back to our methods here,
two methods here.
So up here in our index article,
let's just comment this guy out for now.
I have a little snippet of code here.
Just a little bit updated.
To do this is really easy.
So here instead,
so we say if the tag is a noun,
instead of indexing just a substring,
we're going to call tag it
index to get the lemma out.
And if there's a lemma,
we set our index term to be the lemma.
If not, we'll default to the substring.
And then we just add it
to our index as usual.
Right?
And then for our filter articles,
Okay, I'm going to actually
comment this whole block out.
Grab this.
Now, it's important to mention
that if we're searching,
the search string is probably
going to be very short,
so the -- so the tagger is
probably going to have a difficult
time guessing the language.
It's not going to be very
clear from one or two words.
So all we have to do,
since we kept track of all the languages
that we're being used in our text,
and because the search string is
going to be very short instead,
anyway,
we can just go through all the languages
that we know occur in our text and
get the lemma out for that word and
check if it occurs in our index.
So that's all we're going to do here.
So for each of the languages
that occur in our texts,
in our collection of text,
we will go and get all the lemmas out.
using NST's linguistic
tag scheme for lemma.
If there's a lemma available,
we'll set our search term to the lemma.
If not, we will default to the substring.
And that's all we have to do again.
So we could just run this now.
And now when we type in developer,
now we get our article.
So here you can see all the instances
where developers were found with
the lemma for the search string.
And of course,
this is not just for English.
So if I could type in
something like "monaten"
. I will get this nice German article.
Even though monaten
doesn't occur in this text,
it will still find the text.
That is multilingual content-based
searching using a Neslinguistic tagger.
Thank you very much.
Thanks, Jennifer.
Okay.
So let me summarize what
we've discussed here.
The way that we want to promote for
you to analyze text is to find ranges
of interest within your NSStrings.
We use the Foundation APIs available
on both OS X and iOS to iterate
over the ranges of interest.
In many cases, block enumeration
APIs will do this for you.
There are some other APIs that will
find a particular range of interest.
And depending on the sort
of thing you're looking for,
there are different APIs you can use.
The NSString enumeration or search APIs,
NS character set search APIs,
regular expressions, data detectors,
and finally, the linguistic tagger.
And these all work together very well,
as we've shown in these examples,
to find various pieces in combination.
For more information,
you can contact our evangelist.
We have a string programming guide for
Cocoa for the particular details of
the regular expression syntax we use.
It's provided by the
ICU regular expression library.
I encourage you to take a look
at the headers for these classes.
I actually wrote many of them,
so they contain detailed
information on all of these things.
There are some other related
sessions this afternoon.
One on keyboard input in iOS,
which has a lot of things
related to text handling.
Attributed strings for
iOS this afternoon.
An advanced session tomorrow.
And internationalization on Friday.
And that's what we have for you today.
Thank you very much.